---
title: "GMCC honors Technology Leaders of the Year"
date: "April 27, 2012"
author: "Nancy Dahlberg 04/27/2012"
---

# GMCC honors Technology Leaders of the Year

The Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce today honored the winners of its sixth annual Technology Leaders of the Year Awards at Jungle Island. The awards luncheon recognized individuals and organizations with extraordinary technological hands-on experience whose management of technology resources and/or technological innovations have made outstanding contributions to their organization and the community.

The recipients of the Chamber’s Technology Leaders of the Year Awards are (by category):

***Technology Student***-- **Christina Zarrilli**isa junior in Florida Atlantic University College of Engineering & Computer Science’s Innovation Leadership Honors Program, majoring in Ocean Engineering. She also works as an active volunteer having logged in more than 4500 hours with the Civil Air Patrol, her church, the university’s Service Learning Board and the Society of Women Engineers.

***Technology Student Entrepreneur*** -- **Tyler McIntyre**is a junior at the University of Miami. Originally from Philadelphia, he started his application development company out of his dorm room in 2009. He was voted one of Inc. Magazine’s Top College Entrepreneurs due to his early success. Tyler develops applications for desktop, mobile, and web platforms that have been used by more than a million users in 130 countries. His applications have been featured on the front page of iTunes and ranked among the best-selling applications in the App Store.

***Technology Project*** -- **The Foram Group** is a real estate investment advisory and management company founded in 1978 in Atlanta, Georgia. The Foram Group provides a wealth preservation platform for high net worth families through real estate investment and manages a diversified portfolio of rural and commercial properties in four states. Foram’s services include developing sustainable building practices and the creation of enduring properties, brokerage services, asset and fiduciary services.

***Bioscience Company*** -- **Bioheart Inc.**is focused on the discovery, development and, subject to regulatory approval, commercialization of autologous cell therapies for the treatment of chronic and acute heart damage and peripheral vascular disease. Bioheart’s product candidates are MyoCell®, MyoCell® SDF-1, LipiCell™ and MyoCath. Founded in 1999, Bioheart owns or holds licenses or sub-licenses to an intellectual property portfolio consisting of approximately 19 patents and 19 patent applications in the United States, and approximately 12 patents and 57 patent applications in foreign countries, all for use in the field of heart muscle regeneration.

***Technology Organization***-- **The Launch Pad at University of Miami,**a novel entrepreneurship initiative, helps both students and alumni create and grow enterprises, with a particular focus on the University’s home in South Florida. Currently boasting an active community of 2000+ members, Launch Pad participants have created 75+ new businesses and 165+ new jobs. Locally, The Launch Pad is actively engaged in educating and connecting the tech community through the Launch Pad Tech initiative. In the last year, The Launch Pad has hosted and promoted 12 Refresh Miami events, six Android Developer meetups, a 54-hour Startup Weekend, WordCamp Miami, Super Conf, and the Lean Startup Circle.   
  
***Technology Entrepreneur***-- **Albert Santalo**is President and CEO ofCareCloud. An experienced serial entrepreneur, he founded the company in 2009 with the vision of becoming a healthcare information technology leader focused on eliminating the waste and inefficiency in the healthcare industry. Previously, Albert was founder and chairman of Avisena, a software-enabled revenue cycle management company in the healthcare industry. He led the growth of the firm from $0 to $16 million, increasing revenue an average of 55% per year between 2004 and 2008. He is also the lead inventor and received a U.S. patent for Avisena’s Accounts Receivable Management Methodology. Albert has an MBA from Florida International University and is a member of various industry associations.  
  
***Technology Executive***-- **Fernando Martinez**is a veteran healthcare executive and a recognized technology and security expert who has worked for multi-billion dollar organizations serving in executive IT roles. For the last two years, Fernando served as the Vice President and Chief Information Officer for the Jackson Health System in Miami, Florida. Fernando holds graduate and undergraduate degrees in Information Technology with a concentration in IT security and is a doctoral candidate in Educational Leadership. He is an active member of the Dade County Public Schools IT academy program and serves as a fundraiser, mentor and internship sponsor for high school students on an ongoing basis.  
  
***Technology Company***-- **MotionPoint Corp.**’s mission is to drive client growth by making it easy to penetrate new markets at home and around the world.  MotionPoint’s technology platform for website translation and globalization makes it easy for clients such as Akamai, Best Buy, Capital One, Delta Air Lines, Estee Lauder, Ford and hundreds of others to generate the greatest return possible from new markets.